# Misinformation_Detection

Misleading information has long be a problem on social media platforms. This problem has grown more severe due to the outbreak of COVID-19. People’s confusion of misin- formation leads to their panic about the pandemic and even dangerous actions to protect themselves from the virus. For example, washing fruits and vegetables with bleach. This phenomenon shows the importance to detect misinformation on social media platforms. By applying the features proved by past studies to be useful, the hypothesised useful features, and the observed features of ourselves, this research aimed to detect COVID-19 related mis- information on social media by machine learning approaches with the view of linguistics. A total of 688 Weibo posts offered by C. Yang et al. (2021) were used to train Naïve Bayes, Decision Tree, Random Forest, and Support Vector Machine models. Linguistic features of five levels, punctuation (exclamation_marks and question_marks), semantic (entropy for lexical diversity), semantic-syntactic (dependency_distance for comprehension complexity), syntactic (average_length of clauses and cohesion), and pragmatic level (imperative and in- terrogative) were extracted in this study. Moreover, the Pearson chi-squared test was done to check whether the features show significant differences between real news and misinfor- mation individually. The results show that Random Forest performed the best between the models, with the F-score of 0.82, and all of the features have significant differences between real news and misinformation except for imperative. However, overall, the features worked better when collaborating with each other in a model. Thus, this shows the goal of this study to investigate the usefulness of structured linguistic features in misinformation detection is proved successful.
